nowhere in Gaza seems to be safe right
now un facilities schools Sheltering
displaced Palestinians have also come
under attack Al just here spoke to some
people who fled to a primary school they
described the conditions
[Music]
there we are in a miserable situation
even animals have a better life than
ours we have not seen or touched water
for 5 days now in a few days time we all
starting with our children will die from
thirst or infected diseases there is no
water for us to drink or
wash let's go now to he's actually at a
un run School in Gaza what are
conditions like there where you're at s
do people have access to drinking
water well as in the interview uh we
talk to the people here they say they
live in a miserable conditions that even
they all the say say the same thing that
even animals would not accept to live in
these conditions we went inside before
and we find like 50 people in one
classroom these schools are made for uh
for learning for uh uh you know for um
students and not made for to to to get
or to have uh 50 to 70 in some other
rooms uh people in one in one classroom
uh they don't have the minimum of uh of
hygiene uh measures they don't have the
minimum of food standards the food needs
they don't have the minimum of of even
drinkable drinkable water I saw some of
them even outside carrying bottles and
looking for uh the trucks who sell uh
putable or drinkable water because uh
for the last couple of days there is
serious lack of water so uh in this at
in this Place only there are more than
one uh 100 1,600 people in including
women and children living in this
miserable place next we have we could
see the the uh you know garbage burning
garbage because the municipalities are
not able to to come and collect the
garbage from these areas and Still Still
They these people they believe they are
lucky because the vast majority of the
Palestinians in Gaza of the Tomb million
43 people they couldn't have the chance
to move inside United Nation schools
because these schools are already full
all over the Gaza Strip some of our
colleagues that he moved his children
into five or six different places
because there's no safe place so still
with all these back life conditions here
they believe that or it's believed that
they are lucky people that they found a
place to stay with their children
safety even for the personal safety
while we are standing here we could see
we could hear the uh the heavy uh waret
explosions or raids uh bombarding just
few hundred meters from this place so
even these shelters are not safe uh for
any either life measure or safety uh
measures and S now that electricity has
been cut what does it mean particularly
for
hospitals
look Samy uh let me just add one thing
electricity is live everything runs by
is run by electricity not only elevator
not only universities uh
um schools not only uh um medical
centers or so everything is connected to
electricity the other serious point is
that there is no fuel access that to
that we can either operate or the the
Power Authority can operate the so power
station or even for the individual or
personal generators so people can have
some of uh some electricity per day
Israel still ban the electricity the the
the fuel needed for uh for using the
personal or individual electrical
generators so no electricity no life all
life walks of life will stop and they
start now they started with uh the
serious shortage and lack of drinkable
water and not only drinkable water even
the daily use water so people now are
using only bottles and
gallons all right thanks so
much